"There are two ways to be rich: one is by acquiring much,
"and the other is by desiring little."
We need to change our perception of money.
It's bizarre because we all want more, yet the rich person's
almost always the bad dude in the movies.
We actually lose friends because of money.
I certainly have.
We have fake friends because of it and we lose sleep over it
and of course, our health suffers.
Many of the people that I know that want to have a lot
of money are insecure.
They want it for the wrong reasons.
Many are insecure and want to show off that they have it
and many people who live in large houses
are really stretching their budgets so much in order
to show others that they have money.
They're never happy.
I find that those that are wealthy and happy, which is rare,
are those that have never cared about what other people
think about them.
They choose their profession based on what they love doing
and not for the love of money.
You gotta follow your dreams and the money
will come accidentally.
It's true.
Follow the money and you'll lose your dreams,
and maybe your money too.
Maybe we would be less stressed out
in the very, very long run, about money if we changed
our perception about money and we focus more on saving
and more on giving it away once we accumulate a lot of it.
You'll find that if you spend $5 on yourself,
you actually get less joy out of spending
that $5 on yourself than you do on spending
it on somebody else.
Giving money away to charity gives you this incredible
sense of peace in your heart, knowing that you helped
make somebody's life better.
Why are we here anyway?
What's our raison d'etre?
What's our purpose?
It's certainly not to accumulate a lot of stuff and wealth,
which is why I had us enter in our favorite charity
in the setting section of the course.
Think about how much more wealth you can give away
in the future if you don't spend it today.
And you know what, we will live longer and be happier
if we change our perception about money.
It's actually fun saving because it's like a game
and you think of cool innovative ways and creative ways
to save money.
Saving and being cheap, within reason, is a badge of honor,
in my humble opinion.
It's an honor to give it a way and help enrich the lives
of those that have nothing.
Please understand why you want money in the long run
and if a large reason is contribution, meaning paying
for scholarships for the less fortunate, in addition
to paying to support your growing, loving family,
then the process of accumulating money feels better.
Just know why you want it, please.
And if it's for the wrong reasons, then I promise you
that you will be less happy when you get more.
Bill Gates, he seems so much happier now that he
is dedicating his life to helping other people.
God bless this guy; he's awesome.
He seems as happy now as people that don't have much money,
kind of like Mother Theresa was.
God bless her.
Or those that have some but don't care about impressing
others that don't have it.
Friends that are not insecure are usually happier people.
Separately, there's a saying
that the first generation
that makes the money, the second spends it
and the third has none.
First generation makes money, second spends it,
third has none.
The happiest of all three of those generations
is the first one, partially because they became wealthy
doing what they love doing and often it wasn't just
about they money.
Those that receive too much in terms of handouts
or inheritance are unhappy and they often
lose it all or accomplish much less in life.
This is why Warren Buffet and Bill Gates will not be giving
their kids that much relative to their net worth.
They're smart.
Our riches consist of the fewness of their wants.
It feels great to work hard and make it yourself
because that's a philosophy of freedom and independence
and not material insecurity.
I read this book
by this great economist named Michael Porter.
It's called Can Japan Compete and it's a fascinating read
on why too many governments or even parental handouts
doesn't lead to prosperity.
The crux of this book, actually, it's really interesting,
is that after World War II, when the Japanese economy
was in trouble, what happened
was the government in Japan,
what they did was they gave these incentives
to every single sub-sector within the Japanese economy
to help revitalize growth in the '40s, '50s, '60s.
There's actually only two sectors
that the Japanese government did not give any money to.
Those two sectors are the automotive sector
and consumer electronics.
Wow!
That blows me away because those are
the two most successful sectors in Japan globally.
They make great cars and great consumer electronics as well.
It just shows you that too many handouts,
actually it doesn't help people, it doesn't help companies,
it doesn't help the economy at all.
Just having a sense of purpose, making it yourself,
is great.
If you're helping your kids, you're actually helping
your kids if you make them work harder for it.
We're going to talk a lot more about kids
in the next lecture here.
Making money is about independence.
It's about the freedom to do what you want to do,
not the freedom of wanting to show it off.
You might want to skip the rest of this lecture please,
as I'm about to really go out there
with what I'm about to talk about.
So if what I've talked about in this current lecture
doesn't resonate with you, you can skip it,
'cause I'm really going out on a limb here.
Okay, here we go.
It's easier for an alcoholic to be 100% sober
than 98% sober.
That's extreme, but you're either all in or not
when it comes to saving money.
You can't be 98% committed to saving money.
It's 100% and not 98% because those two percents,
massive, ill thought-out impulse purchase acts by us
can destroy our ability to build longer-term
significant wealth.
You don't need much money to be happy.
Do you want an example?
Go to a park on a weekend.
Look for large families hanging out together,
having a cheap meal and I betcha they don't have much
but darn it, they're happy.
Look for it and you'll know what I mean.
They look way happier than people do in the checkout lines
of expensive stores, after they spent a fortune
on material possessions.
The people we see in the park are always happier eating
and laughing, as lower income families
are always happier eating together
than when we go to an expensive restaurant
and you see how relatively unhappy more wealthy are there.
If we care too much about what others think about us,
then we won't save and we won't give it away as much,
and you know, we won't make the world a better place.
How much do we need to eat really, anyway?
It goes both ways too, as we need to condition ourselves
not to judge people based on how much wealth they have
or lack thereof.
We can't treat people with more wealth than us differently
as that makes them feel really uncomfortable.
Do you know the rich dude at work that everybody kisses
up to, but those people that kiss up to that person
are not respected, especially by the rich person.
I knew a guy who worked for George Bush Senior
in the White House, back in the early 90s and I asked him,
I said, what was Bush Senior's strength?
And he said, you know what, he was great because
he treated celebrities like people
and people like celebrities.
Mother Theresa, I love this woman, she once said,
"if you judge people then you have no time to love them."
I just love this picture so much that I've got to show
it to you twice.
I find that a lot of people that have university degrees
are insecure when it comes to them spending a lot
of money on possessions that they don't need.
They live less fulfilled lives because the reason
many people get advanced degrees is to be able to spend
more in order to remind others of how important they are.
Don't get me wrong, I love education, I do, but I think
we would be happier if we asked ourselves why we want
to get degrees or why we want to spend money on certain
items first.
It's all about perception which ultimately leads to reality.
We want to leave this world in a better condition than
when we entered it.
This is partially why we earn money.
The only time you should look in your neighbor's bowl
is to make sure they have enough.
You don't look in your neighbor's bowl to see if you have
as much as them.
I read this incredibly prophetic article, it was amazing,
in the New York Times a couple years ago, that had a massive
impact on me personally.
It stated that many wealthy people that live
in first world countries, are very unhappy compared
to those that have nothing.
I really felt the meaning of this article when one
of my clients sent me to Mumbai to give
a few business education presentations.
When we arrived in Mumbai, we drove through the slums
and I had this sense of, I can't explain it, but this sense
of peace and calmness in my heart as I saw
how happy everybody was.
Yet, they had nothing.
Imagine no possessions.
It's not that easy if you try.
I wonder if you can.
Of course, I'm quoting John Lennon there.
I actually used to work on Wall Street and everybody
was so miserable around bonus season every December
because they compared themselves to those
that made more money.
How crazy is that?
I'm guilty of that too to be intellectually honest.
This is the big problem in Western society.
We always want more and how much can we eat?
I read the Dalai Lama's book called The Art of Happiness,
which is awesome.
Read it please, the Art of Happiness.
The Dalai Lama, in this book, suggests that we compare
ourselves to those that have less only.
He had this incredible prophetic quote which is,
many people sacrifice their health their entire lives
in order to make money.
At the end of their lives, they sacrifice all their money
in order to maintain their health.
Then they look back on their lives and they realize
that they never really lived to begin with.
All your wealth can't buy you health.
I saw a quote and a I mentioned this earlier,
I have to mention it again, by the time your child
is 12, you've already spent 90% of your time that you'll
ever spend with them.
You'll never be able to get that time back no matter
how much money you have.
Sadly, when a person's possessions distracts her or him
from their purpose, they usually end up losing both.
If you have time, please do this optional exercise.
Please don't think about wanting anything except
for what you already have.
Go on a walk, that's how I write my walks.
I go on long walks.
Go on a walk and write down what are at least three
major material things you will not focus on wanting
to have today and for the foreseeable future.
Write down three things.
Then later on, during your long walk, please think about
and write down what are
at least 10 non-material things
that you already have in your life that you
are incredibly grateful for.
All you need is what you have.
Now, not all of you will be interested in the next lecture
if you don't have kids, but I think it's helpful to check
it out anyway.
If you don't watch the next lecture, then I really hope
you enjoyed part one of this course and I look forward
to seeing you in part two.
Thank you.